Apothecary’s Apprentice — Brass 3
Trappings: Book (Blank), Healing Draught, Leather Jerkin, Pestle and Mortar
Apothecary — Silver 1
Trappings: Guild Licence, Trade Tools
Master Apothecary — Silver 3
Trappings: Book (Apothecary), Apprentice, Workshop
Apothecary-General — Gold 1
Trappings: Commission Papers, Large Workshop
Student Engineer — Brass 4
Trappings: Book (Engineer), Hammer and Spikes
Engineer — Silver 2
Trappings: Guild Licence, Trade Tools
Master Engineer — Silver 4
Trappings: Workshop
Chartered Engineer — Gold 2
Trappings: Guild License, Library (Engineer), Quality
Student Lawyer — Brass 4
Trappings: Book (Law), Magnifying Glass
Lawyer — Silver 3
Trappings: Court Robes, Guild Licence, Writing Kit
Barrister — Gold 1
Trappings: Office, Assistant (Student or Servant)
Judge— Gold 2
Trappings: Gavel, Ostentatious Wig
Novitiate — Brass 1
Trappings: Religious Symbol, Robes
Nun — Brass 4
Trappings: Book (Religion), Religious Relic, Trade Tools (Any)
Abbess — Silver 2
Trappings: Abbey, Library (Theology)
Prioress General — Silver 5
Trappings: Religious Order
Physician’s Apprentice — Brass 4
Trappings: Bandages, Healing Draught
Physician — Silver 3
Trappings: Book (Medicine), Guild Licence, Trade Tools (Medicine)
Doktor — Silver 5
Trappings: Apprentice, Workshop (Medicine)
Court Physician — Gold 1
Trappings: Courtly Attire, Letter of Appointment
Initiate — Brass 2
Trappings: Religious Symbol, Robes
Priest — Silver 1
Trappings: Book (Religion), Ceremonial Robes
High Priest — Gold 1
Trappings: Quality Robes, Religious Relic, Subordinate Priests, Temple
Lector — Gold 2
Trappings: Library (Theology), Subordinate High Priests
Student — Brass 3
Trappings: Alcohol, Book, Opinions, Writing Kit
Scholar — Silver 2
Trappings: Access to a Library, Degree
Fellow — Silver 5
Trappings: Mortarboard, Robes
Professor — Gold 1
Trappings: Study
Wizard’s Apprentice — Brass 3
Trappings: Grimoire, Quarterstaff
Wizard — Silver 3
Trappings: Magical License
Master Wizard — Gold 1
Trappings: Apprentice, Light Warhorse, Magical Item
Wizard Lord — Gold 2
Trappings: Apprentice, Library (Magic), Workshop (Magic)
Pamphleteer — Brass 1
Trappings: Writing Kit, Hammer and Nails, Pile of Leaflets
Agitator — Brass 2
Trappings: Leather Jack
Rabble Rouser — Brass 3
Trappings: Hand Weapon, Pamphleteer
Demagogue — Brass 5
Trappings: 3 Pamphleteers, Patron, Printing Press, Impressive Hat
Apprentice Artisan — Brass 2
Trappings: Chalk, Leather Jerkin, d10 rags
Artisan — Silver 1
Trappings: Guild Licence, Trade Tools
Master Artisan — Silver 3
Trappings: Apprentice, Workshop
Guildmaster — Gold 1
Trappings: Guild, Quality Clothing
Pauper — Brass 0
Trappings: Poor Quality Blanket, Cup
Beggar — Brass 2
Trappings: Crutch, Bowl
Master Beggar — Brass 4
Trappings: Disguise Kit, Hiding Place, Pauper Follower
Beggar King — Silver 2
Trappings: Lair, Large Group of Beggar Followers
Sleuth — Silver 1
Trappings: Lantern, Lamp Oil, Journal, Quill and Ink
Investigator — Silver 2
Trappings: Leather Jack, Hand Weapon, Magnifying Glass, Lockpick
Master Investigator — Silver 3
Trappings: Assistant, Office
Detective — Silver 5
Trappings: Network of Informants, Spyglass
Trader — Silver 2
Trappings: Abacus, Mule and Cart, Canvas Tarpaulin, 3d10 Silver Shillings
Merchant — Silver 5
Trappings: Riverboat or 2 Wagons, Guild License, 20 GC
Master Merchant — Gold 1
Trappings: Town House with Servants, Warehouse, 100 GC
Merchant Prince — Gold 3
Trappings: 2 Riverboats or 4 Wagons, Large Town Estate, 2 Warehouses, 1000 GC, Quality Clothing
Rat Hunter — Brass 3
Trappings: Sling with Ammunition, Sack, Small but Vicious Dog
Rat Catcher — Silver 1
Trappings: Animal Traps, Pole for Dead Rats
Sewer Jack — Silver 2
Trappings: Davrich Lantern, Hand Weapon, Leather Jack
Exterminator — Silver 3
Trappings: Assistant, Large and Vicious Dog, Sack
Clerk — Silver 1
Trappings: Lodgings, Sturdy Boots
Townsman — Silver 2
Trappings: Modest Townhouse, Servant, Quill and Ink
Town Councillor — Silver 5
Trappings: Coach and Driver, Townhouse
Burgomeister — Gold 1
Trappings: Chains of Office, Coach and Footman, Quality Clothing, Large Townhouse with Gardens and Servants
Watch Recruit — Brass 3
Trappings: Hand Weapon, Leather Jack, Uniform
Watchman — Silver 1
Trappings: Lantern and Pole, Lamp Oil, Copper Badge
Watch Sergeant — Silver 3
Trappings: Breastplate, Helm, Symbol of Rank
Watch Captain — Gold 1
Trappings: Riding Horse with Saddle and Tack, Quality Hat, Quality Hand weapon, Quality Symbol of Rank
Aide — Silver 2
Trappings: Writing Kit
Advisor — Silver 4
Trappings: Livery
Counsellor — Gold 1
Trappings: Quality Clothing, Aide
Chancellor — Gold 3
Trappings: Riding Horse with Saddle and Harness, Quality Courtly Garb, Staff of Advisors and Aides
Apprentice Artist — Silver 1
Trappings: Brush or Chisel or Quill Pen
Artist — Silver 3
Trappings: Sling Bag containing Trade Tools (Artist)
Master Artist — Silver 5
Trappings: Apprentice, Patron, Workshop (Artist)
Maestro — Gold 2
Trappings: Large Workshop (Artist), Library (Art), 3 Apprentices
Fencer — Silver 3
Trappings: Hand Weapon or Rapier, Sling Bag containing Clothing and 1d10 Bandages
Duellist — Silver 5
Trappings: Main Gauche or Sword-breaker, Pistol with Gunpowder and Ammunition
Duelmaster — Gold 1
Trappings: Quality Rapier, Hand Weapon, Trusty Second, 2 Wooden Training Swords
Judicial Champion — Gold 3
Trappings: 2 Quality Weapons
Herald — Silver 2
Trappings: Leather Jack, Livery, Scroll Case
Envoy — Silver 4
Trappings: Quill and Ink, 10 sheets of parchment
Diplomat — Gold 2
Trappings: Aide, Quality Clothes, Map
Ambassador — Gold 5
Trappings: Aide, Best Quality Courtly Clothes, Staff of Diplomats, Herald
Scion — Gold 1
Trappings: Courtly Garb, Foil or Hand Mirror, Jewellery worth 3d10 gc , Personal Servant
Noble — Gold 3
Trappings: 4 Household Servants, Quality Courtly Garb, Courtly Garb, Riding Horse with Saddle and Harness or Coach, Main Gauche or Quality Cloak, Jewellery worth 50 gc
Magnate — Gold 5
Trappings: 2 sets of Quality Courtly Garb, 200 gc , Fiefdom, Jewellery worth 200 gc , Signet Ring
Noble Lord — Gold 7
Trappings: 4 sets of Best Quality Courtly Garb, Quality Foil or Hand Mirror, 500 gc , Jewellery worth 500 gc , Province
Menial — Silver 1
Trappings: Floor Brush
Servant — Silver 3
Attendant — Silver 5
Steward — Gold 1
Trappings: Hand Weapon, Fine Clothes, Servant
Informer — Brass 3
Trappings: Charcoal stick, Sling Bag containing 2 different sets of clothing and Hooded Cloak
Spy — Silver 3
Trappings: Informer, Hand Weapon, Disguise Kit, Ring of Informers, Telescope
Agent — Gold 1
Trappings: Book (Cryptography), Ring of Spies and Informers, Loft of Homing Pigeons, Quill and Ink
Spymaster — Gold 4
Trappings: Office and Staff, Large Spy Ring of Agents, Spies, and Informers
Custodian — Silver 1
Trappings: Keys, Lantern, Lamp Oil, Livery
Warden — Silver 3
Trappings: Hand Weapon or Bow with 10 arrows, Riding Horse with Saddle and Harness, Leather Jack
Seneschal— Gold 1
Trappings: Breastplate, Ceremonial Staff of Office, Staff of Wardens and Custodians
Governor — Gold 3
Trappings: Aide, Governor’s Residence, Servant
Tax Collector — Silver 1
Trappings: Hand weapon, small lock box
Bailiff — Silver 5
Trappings: Leather Jack, 3 Tax Collectors
Reeve — Gold 1
Trappings: Horse with Saddle and Tack, Breastplate, Bailiff
Magistrate — Gold 3
Trappings: Library (Law), Quality Robes, Seal of Office
Hedge Apprentice — Brass 1
Trappings: 1d10 Lucky Charms, Quarterstaff, Backpack
Hedge Witch — Brass 2
Trappings: Antitoxin Kit, Healing Poultice, Trade Tools(Herbalist)
Hedge Master — Brass 3
Trappings: Isolated Hut, Apprentice
Hedgewise — Brass 5
Trappings: Assortment of Animal Skulls, Ceremonial Cloak and Garland
Herb Gatherer — Brass 2
Trappings: Boots, Cloak, Sling Bag containing Assortment of Herbs
Herbalist — Brass 4
Trappings: Hand Weapon (Sickle), Healing Poultice, Trade Tools (Herbalist)
Herb Master — Silver 1
Trappings: Herb Gatherer, 3 Healing Poultices, Healing Draught, Workshop (Herbalist)
Herbwise — Silver 3
Trappings: Pony and Cart
Trapper — Brass 2
Trappings: Selection of Animal Traps, Hand Weapon, Sling with 10 Stone Bullets, Sturdy Boots and Cloak
Hunter — Brass 4
Trappings: Bow with 10 arrows
Tracker — Silver 1
Trappings: Backpack, Bedroll, Tent
Huntsmaster — Silver 3
Trappings: Riding Horse with Saddle and Tack, Kennel of Hunting Dogs
Prospector — Brass 2
Trappings: Charcoal Stick, Crude Map, Pan, Spade
Miner — Brass 4
Trappings: Davrich Lamp, Hand Weapon (Pick), Lamp Oil, Leather Jack
Master Miner — Brass 5
Trappings: Great Weapon (Two-handed Pick), Helmet, Trade Tools (Engineer)
Mine Foreman — Silver 4
Trappings: Crew of Miners, Writing Kit
Fortune Teller — Brass 1
Trappings: Deck of Cards or Dice, Cheap Jewellery
Mystic — Brass 2
Trappings: Selection of Amulets
Sage — Brass 3
Trappings: Trade Tools (Writing)
Seer — Brass 4
Trappings: Trade Tools (Astrology)
Guide — Brass 3
Skills: Charm Animal, Climb, Endurance, Gossip, Lore
(Local), Melee (Basic), Outdoor Survival, Perception
Talents: Orientation, Rover, Sharp, Strider (any)
Trappings: Hand Weapon, Leather Jack, Sturdy Boots
and Cloak, Rope
Scout — Brass 5
Skills: Athletics, Navigation, Ranged (Bow), Ride
(Horse), Stealth (Rural), Track
Talents: Combat Aware, Night Vision, Nose for
Trouble, Seasoned Traveller
Trappings: Bow and 10 Arrows, Mail Shirt
Pathfinder — Silver 1
Skills: Animal Care, Haggle, Secret Signs (Hunter),
Swim
Talents: Acute Sense (Sight), Sixth Sense, Strong Legs,
Very Resilient
Trappings: Map, Riding Horse with Saddle and Tack,
Saddlebags with 2 weeks’ Rations, Tent
Explorer — Silver 5
Skills: Language (any), Trade (Cartographer)
Talents: Hardy, Linguistics, Savant (Local), Tenacious
Trappings: Selection of Maps, Trade Tools (Cartographer)
‘You don’t want to be going off the road down by the bluff without a
guide. There’s man-traps in them woods what the reeve put down to
catch poachers. Almost ’ad old Billi’s leg off last week it did.’
– Gwyn, Scout
Scouts can be invaluable to a group of adventurers, especially those
venturing out from a city for the first time to find their fortune.
Reliable and knowledgeable Guides may find themselves asked to
stay on and act as Scouts, although many still act the loner, slipping
in and out of the woods to protect the group from ambush or warn
of enemies ahead.
III
83
Cl ass and Careers - peasants
Warhammer Fantasy Rolepl ay
Villager
Dwarf, Halfling, Human
You are the beating heart of rural life, working the countryside to feed
civilisation.
Sigmar’s bountiful Empire provides an abundant harvest of crops,
livestock, and other marketable goods, so there is always plenty of
work to be found in the countryside. Villagers make up most of the
Empire’s population and perform a variety of valuable roles, including
Farmers, Charcoal Burners, Woodsmen, Millers, Herders, and many
more. Most villages fall under the domain of a noble family, where
day-to-day administration of the estate is overseen by a bailiff. Village
affairs are usually managed by a village council of local tradesmen
and farmers led by an Elder. A village Councillor or Elder can hold
significant local influence overseeing many decisions concerning the
surrounding land.
Villager Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Peasant — Brass 2
Skills: Animal Care, Athletics, Consume Alcohol,
Endurance , Gossip, Melee (Brawling), Lore (Local),
Outdoor Survival
Talents: Rover, Strong Back, Strong-minded, Stone Soup
Trappings: None
Villager — Brass 3
Skills: Dodge, Drive, , Entertain (Storytelling),
Haggle, Melee (Basic), Trade (Any)
Talents: Animal Affinity, Hardy,
Tenacious, Very Strong
Trappings: Leather Jerkin, Hand Weapon
(Axe), Trade Tools (as Trade)
Councillor — Brass 4
Skills: Bribery, Charm, Intimidate,
Leadership
Talents: Craftsman (Any), Dealmaker,
Stout-hearted, Very Resilient
Trappings: Mule and Cart, Village Home
and Workshop
Village Elder — Silver 2
Skills: Intuition, Lore (History)
Talents: Master Tradesman (Any), Nimble Fingered, Public
Speaker, Savant (Local)
Trappings: The Respect of the Village
‘It’s a hard life, for sure, but it’s a good one. Every year the lady from
the manor sends out her guard to clear out the forest and drive off the
beastmen and the like. The family keep us safe, we keep their flocks.
It’s a fair trade most of the time.’
– Gunni Ackermann, Shepherdess
‘Look, you can sneer at me all you want, but Konrad the Hero hisbloomin’-
self was from a village just like mine, so don’t you be talking
us down, you hear! Us villagers are good folk!’
– Erika Bauer, Farmer
The pastoral safety of a sheltered village is an unspeakable bore for
some young Villagers who listen avidly to the tales of faraway lands.
Of course, the stories they hear from wandering Pedlars and Strigany,
all fuelling schemes to escape, bear little relation to the harsh reality
of Empire life. During winter, when food is short, and the fields do
not need tending, young folk venturing to nearby towns and cities
for work often never return, soon caught in the net of civilisation’s
excitement and adventure.
III
84
III
Bounty Hunter
Dwarf, Halfling, High Elf, Human, Wood Elf
Ruthless and determined, you pursue your quarry to the bitter end:
for justice, or for money.
Bounty Hunters track down fugitives and outlaws for coin. Most
are legally appointed by provincial courts and receive warrant papers
granting licence to seize or sometimes kill the target. While some are
motivated by Verena’s justice, most are more concerned by the rewards,
often finding the ‘dead’ in ‘dead or alive’ to be the most convenient route
to their fortune. Many Bounty Hunters start as Thief-Takers, those
hired by crime victims to retrieve stolen goods. Over time, those with
an established reputation may find permanent work from a merchant or
noble house, guild, or cult, or may build a company of Bounty Hunters,
working as a group to collect the largest rewards.
Bounty Hunter Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Thief-taker — Silver 1
Skills: Bribery, Charm, Gossip, Haggle, Intuition, Melee
(Basic), Outdoor Survival, Perception
Talents: Break and Enter, Shadow, Strike to Stun, Suave
Trappings: Hand Weapon, Leather Jerkin, Rope
Bounty Hunter — Silver 3
Skills: Athletics, Endurance, Intimidate, Ranged
(Crossbow), Ranged (Entangling), Track
Talents: Marksman, Relentless, Seasoned Traveller,
Strong Back
Trappings: Crossbow and 10 bolts, Leather Skullcap,
Manacles, Net, Warrant Papers
Master Bounty Hunter — Silver 5
Skills: Animal Care, Climb, Ride (Horse), Swim
Talents: Accurate Shot, Careful Strike, Dual Wielder,
Sprinter
Trappings: Mail Shirt, Riding Horse and Saddle
Bounty Hunter General — Gold 1
Skills: Drive, Lore (Law)
Talents: Deadeye Shot, Fearless (Bounties),
Hardy, Sure Shot
Trappings: Draught Horse and Cart, Mail
Shirt, 4 Pairs of Manacles
‘It’s amazing just how many boys will wrap themselves in manacles
if you smile sweetly enough. And if that doesn’t work, it’s out with
the knives!’
– Anke Dorflinger, Bounty Hunter
In their pursuit of wanted criminals, Bounty Hunters often stumble
into unplanned adventures. As independent operatives, Bounty
Hunters are perfectly suited to dropping their day job to pursue
whatever business is afoot. Further, given their broad base of skills
are always in demand, it is not uncommon to see Bounty Hunters
turning their hand to adventuring full-time, hiring their skills out in
return for payments. Bounty Hunters are a perfect starting career as
they present a solid mixture of social and combat skills allowing you
to contribute no matter the circumstances.
85
Cl ass and Careers - rangers
Warhammer Fantasy Rolepl ay
Coachman
Dwarf, Halfling, Human
Determined and rugged, you deliver passengers safely by coach
despite the daily dangers you face.
For many, the coach is the only way to get from one town to the next.
The wild places between teem with Beastmen, Bandits, and worse,
but with just a team of fresh horses and a blunderbuss, brave and
hardworking Coachmen make travel possible. To help evade danger,
most coaching companies relentlessly pursue speed, and their employees
have a reputation for ruthlessness towards other travellers on the roads,
never trusting anyone. Coachmen often start as Postilions, riding the
lead horse of the team through wind and rain. Instead of transporting
passengers, some Coachmen deliver mail, work as chauffeurs for nobles,
drive cabs or goods wagons, or the big omnibuses of the great cities, or
even become a getaway driver.
Coachman Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Postilion — Silver 1
Skills: Animal Care, Charm Animal, Climb, Drive ,
Endurance, Perception, Ranged (Entangling), Ride (Horse)
Talents: Animal Affinity, Seasoned Traveller, Trick-Riding,
Tenacious
Trappings: Warm Coat and Gloves, Whip
Coachman — Silver 2
Skills: Consume Alcohol, Gossip, Intuition, Lore (Local),
Navigation, Ranged (Blackpowder)
Talents: Coolheaded, Crack the Whip, Gunner, Strongminded
Trappings: Blunderbuss with 10 Shots, Coach Horn, Leather
Jack, Hat
Coach Master — Silver 3
Skills: Animal Training (Horse), Intimidation, Language
(any), Lore (Routes)
Talents: Accurate Shot, Dealmaker, Fearless (Outlaws), Nose
for Trouble
Trappings: Mail Shirt, Pistol, Quality Cloak
Route Master — Silver 5
Skills: Charm, Leadership
Talents: Fearless (Beastmen), Marksman, Orientation,
Rapid Reload
Trappings: Fleet of Coaches and Horses, Maps
‘Get ‘em fed in a quarter bell. No second portions. We ain’t paid for
that. Coach Mistress eats last but save ‘er the best. One minute longer
than the quarter and I take a pfennig off you, the Mistress takes a
shilling off me, and Castle Rock Coaches will be in here as quick as
silver.’
– Bettina Hoch, Innkeeper
‘Three days I was stuck in Weissbruck during the storms. Not a
single thing came in and out. Then just when I thought I’d miss my
appointment in Bogenhafen there appeared three coaches coming
up the frozen track, all together. Bloody typical! You wait days for a
coach, and then three come along at once.’
– Stelle Grabbe, Merchant
Good Coachmen are always in demand for unusual, dangerous or
illegal jobs. A Coachman looking for a change may find winter is
a good time to take a break, as cross-country services are greatly
reduced. Coaching companies are always ready to snap up experienced
coachmen, so returning to work is usually simple.
III
86
Entertainer
Dwarf, Halfling, High Elf, Human, Wood Elf
Whether high-born or low-brow, you distract people from the harsh
realities of life.
Entertainers crop up all over the Old World, and many wander the
Reikland’s roads, earning their crust. Some stay put at a single theatre,
some work as individuals, some as part of a troupe. The worst are little
more than itinerant beggars, the best lauded in the company of counts
and princes. It is not an easy life and the people will not tolerate poor
acts, running them out of town pelted with rotten vegetables.
The most common Entertainers are the perennial crowd-pleasers like
jesters, singers, actors, musicians, acrobats, dancers, and jugglers, but the
Old World is also home to more obscure and bizarre acts.
Entertainer Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Busker — Brass 3
Skills: Athletics, Charm, Entertain (Any) , Gossip, Haggle,
Perform (Any), Play (any), Sleight of Hand
Talents: Attractive, Mimic, Public-Speaking, Suave
Trappings: Bowl, Instrument
Entertainer — Brass 5
Skills: Entertain (Any), Ride (Any), Melee (Basic), Perform
(Any), Play (Any) Ranged (Throwing)
Talents: Contortionist, Jump Up, Sharpshooter, Trick Riding
Trappings: Costume, Instrument, Selection of Scripts (that
you can’t yet read), Throwing Weapons
Troubadour — Silver 3
Skills: Animal Care, Animal Training (Any), Art (Writing),
Language (Any)
Talents: Blather, Master of Disguise, Perfect Pitch, Read/
Write
Trappings: Trained Animal, Writing Kit
Troupe Leader — Gold 1
Skills: Drive, Leadership
Talents: Dealmaker, Etiquette (Any), Seasoned Traveller,
Sharp
Trappings: Draught Horses and Wagon (Stage), Wardrobe of
Costumes and Props, Troupe of Entertainers
A wandering minstrel I,
A thing of shreds and patches,
Of ballads, songs, and snatches,
And dreamy lullaby!
– Libretto from The Emperor of Nippon, by Guillibert and Solomon
‘How do you get to the Luitpold Theatre? Practise!’
– Well known Altdorf joke
‘Musician and prodigy, Vladimira Tchaikofiev, toured the courts of
the Empire performing her compositions for the great and good.
On her triumphant return to her native Kislev, during the reign of
Bloody Katerin, she premiered her first opera, “The Vampire Counts
of Stirland” based on her travels in Sylvania. Unconventionally, she
always chose to conduct with a silver baton.’
– ‘A Defence Against Necromancy’, Patriarch Felip Iyrtu, 2415IC,
from the 1st year required reading list, Amethyst College
The open road, a new village every night, the smell of greasepaint
and the roar of the crowd — life itself can be an adventure for the
Entertainer as they bring excitement to the humdrum, everyday
reality of those they captivate. Given their existence on the edge
of respectable society, curious Entertainers all-too-often find real
adventures of their own.
III
87
Cl ass and Careers - rangers
Warhammer Fantasy Rolepl ay
Flagellant
Human
Just when you abandoned all hope, your suffering and the righteousness
of Sigmar saved you!
Forgiveness does not come easily, only through struggle, pain, and
doing Sigmar’s will. Flagellants travel the Empire, flogging themselves
in penance for their sins, and the sins of others. They are determined
to serve Sigmar until the end of the world, something they believe is
imminent. All good folk are expected to welcome, help, and feed them,
and to pray with them.
Most Flagellants wander in large groups, guided by a Prophet of Doom
who interprets Sigmar’s will. Some follow armies, whipping themselves
into a frenzy as battle is joined and fighting without any thought for
their own safety. Others wander by themselves, believing they best serve
Sigmar by righting the wrongs he guides them towards.
Flagellant Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Zealot — Brass 0
Skills: Dodge, Endurance, Heal, Intimidate, Intuition, Lore
(Sigmar), Melee (Flail) , Outdoor Survival
Talents: Berserk Charge, Frenzy, Read/Write, Stone Soup
Trappings: Flail, Tattered Robes
Flagellant — Brass 0
Skills: Art (Icons), Athletics, Cool, Language
(Classical), Lore (The Empire), Ranged (Sling)
Talents: Hardy, Hatred (Heretics), Flagellant,
Implacable
Trappings: Placard, Religious Symbol, Sling
Penitent — Brass 0
Skills: Charm, Language (any), Lore (Theology), Perception
Talents: Field Dressing, Furious Assault, Menacing,
Seasoned Traveller
Trappings: Religious Relic
Prophet of Doom — Brass 0
Skills: Entertain (Speeches), Leadership
Talents: Battle Rage, Fearless (Heretics), Frightening,
Impassioned Zeal
Trappings: Book (Religion), Followers (including Penitents,
Flagellants, and Zealots)
‘We strike this flesh and spill this blood, for his Empire, in the name
of Sigmar!’
– Viktorina Schwefel, Flagellant
‘We had some flagellants going through the village a couple of months
back. Terrible they were: the agony, the pain, the suffering, and that
was just watching them. We knew what to do. We knew we had to
open our doors and feed them and pray with them. But in the end, we
just hid in the cellar until they’d gone. Scary folk.’
– Wulfrum Barth, villager
‘The Ende is Nigh!’
– Common placard carried by Flagellants
It’s not hard for Flagellants to stumble upon an adventure, especially
involving recognised foes of Sigmar. Flagellants can continue their
lifestyle as they adventure, relying on the honest folk of the Empire
to offer them food, drink and shelter as they trudge ever onwards to
the end of all things.
III
88
Messenger
Dwarf, Halfling, High Elf, Human, Wood Elf
Swift and sure-footed, nothing stops you delivering your messages
on time.
When the postal service is unsecure or too slow, people send a
Messenger. Several courier companies provide express services,
competing to show they are the fastest and safest. Most Messengers
take their duties very seriously, guarding their packages with their lives.
Some courier companies have arrangements with coaching houses
allowing their Messengers to swap tired horses for fresh ones, for topspeed
delivery.
Runners are employed to carry urgent messages in cities. Many larger
settlements host competitions to celebrate the fastest, with the winners
taking prizes and lucrative job contracts. Messengers can also be found
working for the military, noble houses, large merchant houses, and for
criminal gangs seeking to maintain their privacy.
Messenger Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Runner — Brass 3
Skills: Athletics, Climb, Dodge, Endurance ,
Gossip, Navigation, Perception, Melee (Brawling)
Talents: Flee!, Fleet Footed, Sprinter, Step Aside
Trappings: Scroll Case
Messenger — Silver 1
Skills: Animal Care, Charm, Cool, Lore (Local),
Melee (Basic), Ride (Horse)
Talents: Crack the Whip, Criminal, Orientation,
Seasoned Traveller
Trappings: Hand Weapon, Leather Jack, Riding
Horse with Saddle and Tack
Courier — Silver 3
Skills: Charm Animal, Bribery, Consume Alcohol,
Outdoor Survival
Talents: Nose for Trouble, Relentless, Tenacious, Trick
Rider
Trappings: Backpack, Saddlebags, Shield
Courier-Captain — Silver 5
Skills: Intimidate, Leadership
Talents: Dealmaker, Hatred (Outlaws), Kingpin, Very
Resilient
Trappings: Couriers, Mail Shirt, Writing Kit
‘Are you Herr Schmidt of Hochplatz, Kemperbad? Erm, do you
know a Herr Schmidt of Hochplatz, Kemperbad? Erm, do you know
a Hochplatz? Kemperbad?’
– Willi Winkle, Messenger on his first day
‘It looked like an interesting package, if you know what I mean. I
thought I’d just have a quick peek. Thought it was to his girlfriend.
Thought it might be a bit, you know, juicy. How was I to know it was
all that boring spying stuff. Where’s Bretonnia, anyway?’
– Rufus Drucht, Messenger who single-handedly busted the Bloody
Bretonnian spy ring, then lost his job.
Messages can contain all sorts of information, and some lead to
adventure should they be intercepted. The easiest way for any villain
(or innocent party) to get hold of such information will be to waylay
a Messenger. If this happens, it will be the Messenger’s duty to follow
things through until the message is recovered. As Messengers are
usually freelance, paid per package delivered, it is simple enough to
drop everything then pick-up work when they return.
III
89
Cl ass and Careers - rangers
Warhammer Fantasy Rolepl ay
Pedlar
Dwarf, Halfling, Human
Worldly-wise and free of interference, you wander the Empire selling
your wares where you will.
Pedlars traipse from village to hamlet, selling goods and services such
as knife sharpening, mending, and tinkering. Most carry cheap stock
readily available in larger towns, including small luxuries such as
ribbons and hair pins. Pedlars are always welcome as even suspicious
folk like to treat themselves to baubles and knickknacks.
Some Pedlars also take on messenger work; others act as de facto town
criers, bringing news and gossip to the quietest corners of the Empire
in exchange for bed-and-board. Given the dangers on the road, some
Pedlars prefer to keep a stall at a regular town marketplace. It is also
common to find them on pilgrim routes making a living selling relics
to the devout.
Pedlar Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Vagabond — Brass 1
Skills: Charm, Endurance, Entertain (Storytelling), Gossip,
Haggle , Intuition, Outdoor Survival, Stealth (Rural or Urban)
Talents: Fisherman, Flee!, Rover, Tinker
Trappings: Backpack, Bedroll, Goods worth 2d10 Brass,
Tent
Pedlar — Brass 4
Skills: Animal Care, Charm Animal, Consume Alcohol,
Evaluate, Ride (Horse), Trade (Tinker)
Talents: Dealmaker, Orientation, Seasoned Traveller, Strong
Back
Trappings: Mule and Saddlebags, Goods worth 2d10 Silver,
Selection of Pots and Pans, Trade Tools (Tinker)
Master Pedlar — Silver 1
Skills: Drive, Intimidate, Language (any), Perception
Talents: Numismatics, Sturdy, Well-prepared, Very Resilient
Trappings: Cart, Goods worth at least 2d10 Gold
Wandering Trader — Silver 3
Skills: Lore (Local), Lore (Geography)
Talents: Cat-tongued, Strong-minded, Suave, Tenacious
Trappings: Draught Horse and Wagon, Goods worth at
least 5d10 Gold, 50 Silver in Coin
‘This here is an absolutely unique, one-of-a-kind, only-one-inexistence,
work of art. If you want more, don’t worry, I’ve got another
couple of dozen on the back of the cart.’
– Delberz Trötte, Trader
Hearing of profits to be made in far-off lands and listening to the
stories of well-travelled merchants is always going to whet the appetite
of an ambitious Pedlar. Being self-reliant, they can follow up on any
adventure, making a decent profit along the way. They can also gain
access to strongholds and settlements without awkward questions.
III
90
Road Warden
Halfling, Human
With a wary eye and ready weapon, you tour the highways of the
Empire enforcing the law.
Road Wardens protect travellers from the bandits, Greenskins,
Beastmen and other dangers that threaten the Empire’s highways. The
Wardens are supported by a system of tolls, taxes they often collect
personally. Successful Road Wardens are well-received and respected,
and often have bunks in each inn along their route. Most mainroad
Road Wardens are part of the State Army, patrolling primary
thoroughfares during peace time, so are well-trained and resplendent
in neat uniforms. Less-travelled roads make do with local equivalents,
some of whom take advantage of their position and lack of supervision
for their own gain. Some Wardens prefer sitting in their safe, fortified
toll stations to clearing the roads, but travellers often balk at handing
over coin when the roads are dangerous and in disrepair.
Road Warden Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Toll Keeper — Brass 5
Skills: Bribery, Consume Alcohol, Gamble, Gossip,
Haggle, Melee (Basic), Perception , Ranged (Crossbow)
Talents: Coolheaded, Embezzle, Marksman,
Numismatics
Trappings: Crossbow with 10 Bolts, Leather Jack
Road Warden — Silver 2
Skills: Animal Care, Endurance, Intimidate,
Intuition, Outdoor Survival, Ride (Horse)
Talents: Crack the Whip, Criminal, Roughrider, Seasoned
Traveller
Trappings: Hand Weapon, Mail Shirt, Riding Horse with
Saddle and Harness, Rope
Road Sergeant — Silver 4
Skills: Athletics, Charm, Leadership, Ranged (Blackpowder)
Talents: Etiquette (Soldiers), Fearless (Outlaws), Hatred
(any), Nose for Trouble
Trappings: Squad of Road Wardens, Pistol with 10 Shots,
Shield, Symbol of Rank
Road Captain — Gold 1
Skills: Lore (Empire), Navigation
Talents: Combat Aware, Commanding Presence, Kingpin,
Public Speaker
Trappings: Light Warhorse, Pistol with 10 Shots, Quality
Hat and Cloak, Unit of Road Wardens
‘What can I say, it’s a pfennig a leg. Them’s the rules. Nothing I can do
about it. Perhaps you should try to find a different route to get your
bees to Grünburg.’
– Andreas Muller, jobsworth Toll Keeper
‘So, I was stopped by a road warden t’other day. She said I should
beware an unscrupulous character out patrolling the roads and
charging hapless travellers a thruppence to let them pass. I thanked
the warden for the valuable advice. “Taal guide you,” she said, “that
will be thruppence.”’
– Ullrich the Pedlar
Road Wardens frequently find adventure. Anything untoward
happening in the countryside is often close to a well-patrolled
roadside. When trouble occurs, Road Wardens are summoned to
resolve any problems. If they follow up and become involved in an
investigation, they are simply doing their job, and might even secure
extra pay for their time, even if the resulting adventure takes them far
from their regular beat.
III
91
Cl ass and Careers - rangers
Warhammer Fantasy Rolepl ay
Witch Hunter
Human
You hunt the illegal witches plaguing the Empire by any and all
means necessary.
There are few so feared and respected as the Witch Hunter, and they
are given extraordinary leeway in performing their duties. Typically
armed with silvered blades and a brace of pistols — for lead is not
so easily dispelled — they stalk all corners of the Old World ready to
dispense judgement on any witch they find, or any who would harbour
them. Most Witch Hunters in the Empire are attached to the Cult of
Sigmar. Secular Witch Hunters are sometimes employed by provincial
government, though these are little more than specialist bounty hunters.
The Colleges of Magic also have Witch Hunters called Wizards
Vigilant who pursue rogue wizards, necromancers, and daemonologists
— they believe it is wisest to set a witch to catch a witch.
Witch Hunter Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Interrogator — Silver 1
Skills: Charm, Consume Alcohol, Heal, Intimidate ,
Intuition, Lore (Torture), Melee (Brawling), Perception
Talents: Coolheaded, Menacing, Read/Write, Resolute
Trappings: Hand Weapon, Instruments of Torture
Witch Hunter — Silver 3
Skills: Cool, Gossip, Melee (Basic), Lore (Witches), Ranged
(Any), Ride (Horse)
Talents: Dual Wielder, Marksman, Seasoned Traveller,
Shadow
Trappings: Crossbow Pistol or Pistol, Hat (Henin), Leather
Jack, Riding Horse with Saddle and Tack, Rope, Silvered
Sword
Inquisitor — Silver 5
Skills: Endurance, Leadership, Lore (Law), Lore (Local)
Talents: Fearless (Witches), Nose for Trouble, Relentless,
Strong-minded
Trappings: Quality Clothing, Subordinate Interrogators
Witchfinder General — Gold 1
Skills: Lore (Chaos), Lore (Politics)
Talents: Frightening, Iron Will, Magical Sense, Pure Soul
Trappings: Best Quality Courtly Garb, Subordinate Witch
Hunters
‘I ain’t met a witch yet that won’t catch fire.’
– Father Linken Donatus, Priest of Sigmar,
murdered by a rogue pyromancer
‘If you’re not a witch, you have nothing to fear.’
– Walter Keller, Witch Hunter Captain,
said the night before the burning of Almshof
A Witch Hunter’s existence is one of constant adventure, often
ranging the length and breadth of the grand provinces. They are called
upon whenever the foul influence of unsanctioned magic emerges,
and are expected to hunt it down. The bigger the reputation a Witch
Hunter earns, the more dangerous the foes assigned, and the greater
the adventures that follow. If you play a Witch Hunter, it is worth
while making sure others aren’t playing a Hedge Witch or Witch as
this may immediately bring the party into conflict.
III
92
Boatman
Dwarf, Halfling, High Elf, Human
You ply the dangerous waters of the Old World, transporting people,
goods, and the latest news.
Boats and barges travel the Empire’s waterways, bringing goods
from the remotest corners of the provinces to the greatest cities.
These shallow-drafted vessels can travel much further upriver than
larger ships, and a comprehensive network of canals adds to their
reach. Barge Masters are expert river sailors and have an exhaustive
knowledge of their rivers. A Boat-hand is the dogsbody, but will learn
the ropes swiftly. Boatmen crew merchant barges carrying cargo to and
from markets, either working for themselves or for a larger Merchant
House. Many Boatmen are also ferrymen, taking passengers across
rivers, or to and from towns. In large towns, some also crew rivertaxis,
sail pleasure vessels, or otherwise pilot boats on the behalf of others.
Boatman Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Boat-hand — Silver 1
Skills: Consume Alcohol, Dodge, Endurance, Gossip, Melee
(Brawling), Row, Sail , Swim
Talents: Dirty Fighting, Fisherman, Strong Back, Strong
Swimmer
Trappings: Hand Weapon (Boat Hook), Leather Jack,
Pole
Boatman — Silver 2
Skills: Athletics, Entertain (Storytelling),
Haggle, Intuition, Lore (Riverways),
Perception
Talents: Etiquette (Guilder), Seasoned
Traveller, Very Strong, Waterman
Trappings: Rope, Rowboat
Bargeswain — Silver 3
Skills: Climb, Entertain (Singing), Heal,
Trade (Boatbuilding)
Talents: Dealmaker, Embezzle, Nose for
Trouble, Strike Mighty Blow
Trappings: Backpack, Trade Tools
(Carpenter)
Barge Master — Silver 5
Skills: Leadership, Navigation
Talents: Menacing, Orientation, Pilot, Public Speaker
Trappings: Hat, Riverboat and Crew
‘Someday a real rain will come. So, don’t forget your hat, madam.’
– Travis Binckel, Rivertaxi
‘Beware of forking. I say this as an experienced bargeswain. If you
approach a dangerous rock or other river hazard be sure to go
astarboard and stay astarboard while laying astarboard, or go alarboard
and stay alarboard while laying alarboard. Or you will fork, and you
might sink. And no-one wants to sink their forking barge.’
– Jacob Walles, Bargeswain who sank his forking barge
A boatman will not need to seek out adventure, for more than likely
adventure will come to them. Boats are useful to nearly everyone,
and therefore useful to almost any adventure plot; they also make an
excellent base of operations. Boatmen will not need to worry about
following investigation and adventure if the plot stays on or close to
the river. Even if the plot leaves the river, they could still easily allow a
talented Boathand to look after their business while they take a break
from river life.
III
93
Cl ass and Careers - riverfolk
Warhammer Fantasy Rolepl ay
Huffer
Dwarf, Halfling, Human
You pilot ships and boats through the most treacherous waters of the
Old World.
Huffers are specialist river guides with expert knowledge of local river
systems. They are a common sight near the most dangerous stretches of
the Empire’s rivers and can command significant wages for what many
view as easy work. Others view it as cheap compared to the potential
cost of lost cargo.
Many Huffers specialise in a single, notorious stretch of water, while
others make their money at certain times of the year when the waters
are at their worst. Other Huffers have broader knowledge and will
guide vessels for their entire journey, effectively acting as navigators.
This is especially true of merchant ships with particularly valuable cargo
at difficult times of the year.
Huffer Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Riverguide — Brass 4
Skills: Consume Alcohol, Gossip, Intuition, Lore
(Local), Lore (Riverways), Perception, Row, Swim
Talents: Fisherman, Night Vision, Orientation, Waterman
Trappings: Hand Weapon (Boat Hook), Storm Lantern
and Oil
Huffer — Silver 1
Skills: Charm, Cool, Entertain (Storytelling),
Language (Any), Melee (Basic), Navigation
Talents: Dealmaker, Etiquette (Guilder), Nose for
Trouble, River Guide
Trappings: Leather Jerkin, Rope, Row Boat
Pilot — Silver 3
Skills: Haggle, Intimidate, Lore (Local), Lore
(Wrecks)
Talents: Acute Sense (Sight), Pilot, Sea Legs, Very
Strong
Trappings: Pole, Storm Lantern and Oil
Master Pilot — Silver 5
Skills: Leadership, Sail
Talents: Sixth Sense, Sharp, Strong Swimmer, Tenacious
Trappings: Boathand, Small Riverboat
‘A great big ship came in from Marienburg, low in the water and
packed to the gunwales. I said that it would cost them a crown to
take them through the Furdienst. Steep, yes, but it was a big ship.
The arrogant Wastelander scoffed, said he’d do it himself. But sure
enough, they drifted right into the shallows and were holed. They
lost a good part of their cargo and it took them a week to repair the
damage. Reckon it cost them a bit more than a crown.’
– Ilsa Dasche, Huffer
As an expert for hire, Huffers are often hired by wealthy patrons,
frequently brought in as specialists on journeys of discovery. Even
when travelling into the unknown, Huffers are useful for their broad
range of knowledge concerning river conditions and piloting. Because
of the regional and seasonal nature of the work, many Huffers are
ready to drop everything and travel to where they’re needed. This
freedom transfers well to the adventuring lifestyle, and also suits
those seeking to return to Huffing should adventuring not supply
their needs.
III
94
III
95
Cl ass and Careers - riverfolk
Riverwar den
Halfling, Human
Strong-backed and sure, you patrol the riverways in pursuit of
lawbreakers and troublemakers.
A clarion call across the waterways heralds the arrival of the Imperial
River Patrol, a river-borne police force known as much for its harassing
thugs as for its good work. Most riverside villages and inns set aside
moorings for them as, without them, worse criminals would rule
the waters. The overworked patrols concentrate on egregious crimes,
resolving petty misdemeanours with spot fines. On major trade-routes,
the patrols have larger vessels manned by ‘Shipswords’ trained to tackle
larger threats like Greenskins or Trolls.
Some Riverwardens rarely see the water, instead manning remote
outposts overlooking strategically important waters. Others crew fast
riverboats charged to intercept smugglers in the night. The largest
Riverwarden vessels are effectively sea-worthy warships, bristling with
cannon and mortars, ready for almost any eventuality.
Riverwar den Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h River Recruit — Silver 1
Skills: Athletics, Dodge, Endurance, Melee (Basic) ,
Perception, Row, Sail, Swim
Talents: Strong Swimmer, Strong Back, Very
Strong, Waterman
Trappings: Hand Weapon (Sword), Leather Jack,
Uniform
Riverwarden — Silver 2
Skills: Bribery, Charm, Intimidate, Gossip, Lore
(Riverways), Ranged (Blackpowder)
Talents: Criminal, Gunner, Fisherman, Seasoned Traveller
Trappings: Lantern and Oil, Pistol with 10 shot, Shield
Shipsword — Silver 4
Skills: Climb, Cool, Intuition, Leadership
Talents: Fearless (Wreckers), Hatred (Any), Pilot, Sea Legs
Trappings: Grappling Hook, Helmet, Mail Shirt
Shipsword Master — Gold 1
Skills: Lore (Law), Navigation
Talents: Commanding Presence, Kingpin, Menacing,
Orientation
Trappings: Patrol Boats and Crew, Symbol of Rank
‘So back in the day, when I was a riverwarden, Big Willi came round
to tell me I had to leave a certain shipment alone. He said I should just
let it through and everything would be alright. Of course, I was young,
wasn’t I? I told the ship’s Master all about it. And was I rewarded for
my honesty? Nah, Big Willi came round and beat me up, and the next
day I was drummed out of the river patrol. They were all in it together,
weren’t they?’
– Nikki Schnelling, ex-riverwarden
A diligent Riverwarden, searching vessels and following up leads,
might stumble across any sort of nefarious plot or sinister cargo.
Riverwardens typically work month-long shifts, but this means they
also have months off. This structure is ideal for adventuring: as a
Riverwarden need not desert their post to pursue private matters, or
even have to persuade their Sergeant that it is their duty to follow up
crimes. They can head off, investigate, and be back long before their
next cycle begins.
Warhammer III Fantasy Rolepl ay
96
Riverw oman
Dwarf, Halfling, Human
Rivers carry most of the Old World’s traffic, and you stand in the
heart of that excitement.
The fertile banks of the great rivers of the Empire are densely
populated, and the folk working day-in, day-out in the nearby waters
and marshes provide much of the fresh fish, eels, and crustaceans
feeding the towns and cities. Unlike the inland villages, those on
the great rivers frequently receive outsiders who trade and restock,
meaning Riverwomen are somewhat more open and diverse, and
often the first with news from distant lands. There are any number of
diverse jobs supported by the river. Many harvest the Reik’s bounty:
fisherfolk (using rod, spear, or net), eelers (using traps or pots), or
diggers for shellfish. Many live in riverside villages labouring,
dredging, or lugging, and maintaining the Reik’s many thousands of
vessels.
Riverw oman Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Greenfish — Brass 2
Skills: Athletics, Consume Alcohol, Dodge, Endurance ,
Gossip, Outdoor Survival, Row, Swim
Talents: Fisherman, Gregarious, Strider (Marshes), Strong
Swimmer
Trappings: Bucket, Fishing Rod and Bait, Leather Leggings
Riverwoman — Brass 3
Skills: Gamble, Lore (Local), Lore (Riverways), Ranged
(Entangling), Ranged (Throwing), Set Trap
Talents: Craftsman (Boatbuilder), Rover, Strong Back,
Waterman
Trappings: Eel Trap, Leather Jerkin, Net, Spear
Riverwise — Brass 5
Skills: Charm, Intuition, Melee (Polearm), Perception
Talents: Savant (Riverways), Stout-hearted, Tenacious,
Very Strong
Trappings: Row Boat, Storm Lantern and Oil
River Elder — Silver 2
Skills: Entertain (Storytelling), Lore
(Folklore)
Talents: Master Craftsman (Boatbuilder),
Public Speaker, Sharp, Strong-minded
Trappings: Hut or Riverboat
‘If I drop this branch in the water now, it will eventually get to
Marienburg. Unless it sticks in the mud, of course.’
– Jemima the Greenfish
‘They say the whole Empire will eventually float by if you sit by the
Reik long enough. Well, I’ve sat here, rod in hand, for twenty years,
watching the flow downriver. The things I could tell you. I’ve seen war
and I’ve seen peace. I’ve seen good times and bad. I’ve seen happiness
and sorrow. And in all that time, I can honestly say, I’ve not caught a
single bloody fish.’
– Thys Lange, the Reikland’s worst Fisherman
A Riverwoman will feel at home on any stretch of water, and their
skills ensure they can drop everything, confident that they will be able
to find work elsewhere should they need to. A Riverwoman is wellplaced
to get the lowdown on the more iniquitous side of river life and
may have contacts among the river’s lowlifes. With their knowledge
and experience they can make all the difference to a water-based
expedition or investigation.
Seaman
Dwarf, Halfling, High Elf, Human
A life on the ocean waves calls to you, though many Reiklander
Seamen never see the sea…
Seamen sail the high seas in the Imperial Navy or for one of the
Merchant houses. The Reikland may have no coast, but the River Reik
from the Wasteland to Altdorf is miles wide and full of ocean-going
vessels. The Imperial First Fleet that patrols these waters rarely sees
the open sea, because the taxes to pass warships through Marienburg
are exorbitantly high.
Seamen can always find work, whether as cabin staff on an Imperial
battleship or on the crew of a small trading sloop. Some Seamen
travel the world by working to pay their passage. The Reik also houses
many ‘Missions’, buildings provided by the Imperial Navy for their
staff, many of which employ Seamen.
Seaman Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Landsman — Silver 1
Skills: Climb, Consume Alcohol, Gamble, Gossip,
Row, Melee (Brawling), Sail , Swim
Talents: Fisherman, Strider (Coastal), Strong
Back, Strong Swimmer
Trappings: Bucket, Brush, Mop
Seaman — Silver 3
Skills: Athletics, Dodge, Endurance, Entertain
(Singing), Language (any), Melee (Basic)
Talents: Catfall, Sea Legs, Seasoned Traveller, Strong
Legs
Trappings: Hand Weapon (Boat Hook), Leather Jerkin
Boatswain — Silver 5
Skills: Cool, Leadership, Perception, Trade (Carpenter)
Talents: Old Salt, Strike Mighty Blow, Tenacious, Very
Strong
Trappings: Trade Tools (Carpenter)
Ship’s Master — Gold 2
Skills: Charm, Navigation
Talents: Orientation, Pilot, Public Speaking, Savvy
Trappings: Shipping Charts, Sailing Ship and Crew,
Sextant, Spyglass
‘I can see the Sea!’
– Marian Zelman, Optimistic Reiklander Sailor
‘Yeah, I’ve sailed through Marienburg. Bloody Wastelanders made it
as difficult as possible for us to get out to sea. I swear the huffer took
us three times round the islands just for fun before we even smelled
salt water. And they taxed us twice for everything. Even the ship’s cat
got taxed. Glad to be home, to be honest.’
– Thom Wesserbrug, Boatswain
Beyond Marienburg, the whole world awaits a Seaman: the perilous
Sea of Claws, the unfathomable Great Ocean, the exotic Thousand
Islands, the Southern Sea, the Black Gulf. And at home, a Seaman
can spend a whole life plying the Reik’s waters and never have the
same day twice.
III
97
Cl ass and Careers - riverfolk
Warhammer Fantasy Rolepl ay
Smuggler
Dwarf, Halfling, High Elf, Human
You smuggle cargo, avoiding taxes and risking riverwarden
inspections to secure maximum profit.
Most trade is legally taxed by local lords, as well as illegally taxed by
bandits and protection rackets. Smugglers see themselves as charitable
helpers: merchants make more profit, customers pay less coin, morally
flexible Riverwardens take a cut, outlaws are avoided, and more besides.
It takes experience and ingenuity to circumvent all the bailiffs, custom
officials, excisemen, and busy bodies keen to stop them, but Smugglers
dare the risks to support themselves and their families.
Smugglers come in many forms, perhaps transporting tiny, highvalue
goods for nobles, or large cargoes for shady merchants. Some
Smugglers also deal in illicit goods, a crime that will incur significantly
more repercussions than a burned finger or smugglers’ brand.
Smuggler Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h River Runner — Brass 2
Skills: Athletics, Bribery, Cool, Consume Alcohol,
Row, Sail, Stealth (Rural or Urban) , Swim
Talents: Criminal, Fisherman, Strider (Marshes),
Strong Back
Trappings: Large Sack, Mask or Scarves, Tinderbox,
Storm Lantern and Oil
Smuggler — Brass 3
Skills: Haggle, Gossip, Lore (Local), Melee
(Basic), Perception, Secret Signs (Smuggler)
Talents: Dealmaker, Etiquette (Criminals), Waterman,
Very Strong
Trappings: 2 Barrels, Hand Weapon, Leather Jack, Row
Boat
Master Smuggler — Brass 5
Skills: Evaluate, Intimidate, Intuition, Lore
(Riverways)
Talents: Briber, Fearless (Riverwardens), Pilot, Strong
Swimmer
Trappings: River Runner, Speedy Riverboat
Smuggler King — Silver 2
Skills: Language (Any), Leadership
Talents: Kingpin, Savvy, Strider (Coastal), Sea Legs
Trappings: Disguise Kit, Small Fleet of Riverboats
‘See, this is where the bottle of best Bordeleaux goes. The river wardens
will search behind here, and find it, and confiscate it. That’s what we
want because it means they don’t find the twelve bottles we have
hidden under here. And if they find those, all is not lost, because they
will be so pleased with themselves they won’t even bother searching
over there where there’s twenty-four bottles.’
– Hansel Solomon, Smuggler
Smugglers find adventure, even though they usually want things to
stay quiet and uneventful. Any number of things can go wrong on a
smuggling mission, and even if things go right, there will always be
the lure of the next job, likely bigger and better than the last. Whole
adventures can be played out solely on smuggling missions. Similarly,
it will be easy for a smuggler to find gainful employment away from
their usual work. Someone with a trick up their sleeve, an eye for
detail, and a cool head when things get hot is always going to be a
desirable companion on dangerous expeditions and adventures.
III
98
Stevedore
Dwarf, Halfling, Human
You may officially load cargo for coin, but everyone knows the
Stevedores rule the docklands.
With their sole right to load and unload vessels, Stevedore Guilds
can slow or even stop trade. This grants power, with many docksides
effectively ruled by the guilds. In larger towns, several gangs might
violently compete for supremacy. Scowling Foremen deal with guild
matters and blow their whistles to summon their gangs from riverside
inns, either for fresh work or to defend their territory.
A Stevedore might work alone in a riverside village, or in a large gang
on a busy, chaotic city dockside. Sometimes they might be part of a
criminal gang that just moves a bit of cargo on the side to cover their
tracks. Some Stevedores are enforcers, making sure everyone else is
working hard.
Stevedore Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Dockhand — Brass 3
Skills: Athletics, Climb, Consume Alcohol, Dodge,
Endurance , Gossip, Melee (Basic), Swim
Talents: Dirty Fighting, Strong Back, Sturdy, Very
Strong
Trappings: Hand Weapon (Boat Hook), Leather
Gloves
Stevedore — Silver 1
Skills: Bribery, Entertain (Storytelling), Gamble, Intimidate,
Perception, Stealth (Urban)
Talents: Criminal, Etiquette (Guilders), Strong Legs,
Tenacious
Trappings: Guild Licence, Leather Jerkin, Pipe and
Tobacco, Porter Cap
Foreman — Silver 3
Skills: Cool, Evaluate, Intuition, Leadership
Talents: Dealmaker, Embezzle, Etiquette (Criminals),
Public Speaking
Trappings: Gang of Stevedores, Whistle
Dock Master — Silver 5
Skills: Charm, Lore (Taxes)
Talents: Kingpin, Menacing, Numismatics, Read/Write
Trappings: Office and Staff, Writing Kit
‘Look, I know we specialise in coal, but don’t fence us in, we’ll port
anything if the coin’s good. So, let’s do it afore the deal porters arrive;
anything goes here, mate.’
– Albert Pförtner, Coal Porter
‘Listen, boy. Don’t think them dockers have it easy. It’s dangerous,
claustrophobic work, with heavy goods and high stacks, and if it’s
done wrong, the cargo may overbalance, perhaps even capsizing the
boat. What I’m saying is, pay the Stevedores right — and if you want
a boat to sink, pay them extra.’
– Aleida Fuchs, Merchant
Amid the humdrum and repetition of the dockside there are good
opportunities for adventure as a Stevedore. Stevedore gangs are
virtually a law unto themselves, and they fight for every foot of
riverside that they command. Stevedores are useful characters to have
around, able to handle themselves, and deal with lowlifes.
III
99
Cl ass and Careers - riverfolk
Warhammer Fantasy Rolepl ay
Wrecker
Dwarf, Human, Wood Elf
You lure vessels to a watery doom and make off with their cargo.
Sometimes the gods send riverfolk an unexpected windfall as goods
wash up from an ill-fated vessel. Sometimes the gods need a helping
hand: that’s where Wreckers come in. Laying devious traps and sending
disorienting signals, Wreckers lure unwary river traffic onto sand banks
and rocks, then loot the wreck, no matter how any surviving crew may
protest.
Some Wreckers pride themselves on their clever traps, making any
wreck seem like an accident, and keeping a plausible distance from the
actual looters. Some board ships by force and throw its crew overboard,
expert at spotting under-armed boats with valuable cargo. These River
Pirates are hunted by road and riverwardens, constantly moving to
evade the authorities.
Wrecker Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Cargo Scavenger — Brass 2
Skills: Climb, Consume Alcohol, Dodge, Endurance, Row,
Melee (Basic) , Outdoor Survival, Swim
Talents: Break and Enter, Criminal, Fisherman,
Strong Back
Trappings: Crowbar, Large Sack, Leather Gloves
Wrecker — Brass 3
Skills: Bribery, Cool, Intuition, Navigation,
Perception, Set Traps
Talents: Flee!, Rover, Strong Swimmer, Trapper
Trappings: Hand Weapon (Boat Hook), Leather Jack,
Storm Lantern and Oil
River Pirate — Brass 5
Skills: Gossip, Intimidate, Ranged (Crossbow), Stealth (Rural)
Talents: Dirty Fighting, Etiquette (Criminals), Menacing,
Waterman
Trappings: Crossbow with 10 Bolts, Grappling Hook and
Rope, Riverboat
Wrecker Captain — Silver 2
Skills: Leadership, Lore (Riverways)
Talents: Furious Assault, In-fighter, Pilot, Warrior Born
Trappings: Fleet of Riverboats and Wrecker Crew, Keg of
Ale, Manacles
‘We spied this juicy ripe sloop on its way to Carroburg just as night
was falling, and lit some fires on the left bank to make them think
the village was a few hundred yards closer. They tacked to starboard
just like we planned and hit the sand bank dead on. Sweet as. How
were we to know the boat was transporting a company of pistoliers?’
– Greta Lachsmann, shortly before her hanging
‘Look, if we let the crew live, they’ll tell the wardens where we operate,
so the only sensible thing is to kill ’em all.’
– Mandel Stein, Pragmatic River Pirate
A well-planned and executed wrecking is an adventure in itself:
avoiding the authorities, disposing of the goods, keeping people’s
mouths shut, and spending the ill-gotten gains all present their own
opportunities and dangers. And who knows what cargo they will
find, and who may come pursuing those who stole it. Wreckers who
come across such adventure will have no trouble leaving their old lives
behind or returning to them again when times are lean.
III
100
Baw d
Halfling, High Elf, Human
Street-wise and mercenary, you make a living selling illicit goods in
the seedier side of town.
Bawds guide folk to establishments offering a variety of illegal and
immoral services. Though many Humans and Dwarfs have objections
to such activities, most Halflings and High Elves are quite matter-offact
about drug-dens, brothels, or other houses of vice.
Bawds include drug-dealers, dancers, hustlers and artists’ models.
Many famous masterpieces of the modern era have been posed for
by Bawds plucked from the street. Traveling armies are followed by
camp followers, with Bawds among them looking to make coin in
any way they can. Ringleaders, proprietors of establishments where
Bawds gather, can accrue significant empires providing services to all
types of rogues, from fences who need discreet access to rich clients,
to providing safe bolt-holes for gang bosses and crime lords.
Baw d Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Hustler — Brass 1
Skills: Bribery, Charm, Consume Alcohol, Entertain (Any),
Gamble, Gossip, Haggle, Intimidate
Talents: Attractive, Alley Cat, Blather, Gregarious
Trappings: Flask of Spirits
Bawd — Brass 3
Skills: Dodge, Endurance, Intuition, Lore
(Local), Melee (Basic), Perception
Talents: Ambidextrous, Carouser, Criminal,
Resistant (Disease)
Trappings: Dose of Weirdroot, Quality Clothing
Procurer — Silver 1
Skills: Cool, Evaluate, Language (any), Lore (Law)
Talents: Dealmaker, Embezzle, Etiquette (Any), Suave
Trappings: A Ring of Hustlers
Ringleader — Silver 3
Skills: Leadership, Lore (Heraldry)
Talents: Briber, Kingpin, Numismatics, Savvy
Trappings: Townhouse with Discreet Back Entrance, a Ring
of Bawds
‘Come to the Hammer and Bucket, home of the best music and
entertainment in old Altdorf town! You will not be disappointed!’
– Raynald Schmid, Bawd
‘Scoff all you like, but those clothes cost money. For a lad born ’neath
the dung heap, he lives a life of luxury.’
– Hertel Netzhoch, Innkeep
Bawds living in urban areas sometimes travel to flee plagues and
religious persecutions, the latter of which crop up all-to-frequently
in areas dominated by Sigmar worship. Others, such as those who
rove with entertainers, consider travel as part and parcel of their
occupation. Those who secure a patron might have significant lengths
of time left to their own devices.
III
101
Cl ass and Careers - rogues
Warhammer Fantasy Rolepl ay
Charlatan
Halfling, High Elf, Human
Unscrupulous and charming, you separate fools from their money;
thankfully, there is no shortage of fools…
A Charlatan traffics in trust, yet profits from treachery. By preying on
emotions and psychological weaknesses, Charlatans offer their ‘mark’ a
prize that is too good to be true. Social privilege provides no protection,
and even the loftiest citizens can fall victim to a skilled Charlatan. In
addition to a knack for lying, a lack of conscience is also of benefit to
Charlatans.
Charlatans include Swindlers, Con Artists, Gamblers, and other
Scoundrels seeking to prey on the gullible. Halflings often operate
distraction cons in small family groups. Young High Elves, slumming it
with Humans, treat their cons as one big game, not motivated by profit,
but to prove their superiority. Some experienced Charlatans work with
artists, who forge documentation for a cut of any profits.
charlatan Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Swindler — Brass 3
Skills: Bribery, Consume Alcohol, Charm, Entertain
(Storytelling), Gamble, Gossip, Haggle, Sleight of Hand
Talents: Cardsharp, Diceman, Etiquette (Any), Luck
Trappings: Backpack, 2 Sets of Clothing, Deck of Cards, Dice
Charlatan — Brass 5
Skills: Cool, Dodge, Entertain (Acting), Evaluate,
Intuition, Perception
Talents: Blather, Criminal, Fast Hands, Secret Identity
Trappings: 1 Forged Document, 2 Sets of Quality
Clothing, Selection of Coloured Powders and Water,
Selection of Trinkets and Charms
Con Artist — Silver 2
Skills: Language (Thief), Lore (Heraldry), Pick Lock,
Secret Signs (Thief)
Talents: Attractive, Cat-tongued, Dealmaker, Read/Write
Trappings: Disguise Kit, Lock Picks, Multiple Forged
Documents
Scoundrel — Silver 4
Skills: Lore (Genealogy), Research
Talents: Gregarious, Master of Disguise, Nose for Trouble,
Suave
Trappings: Forged Seal, Writing Kit
‘I’ve carried this across countless leagues from the highest towers
of the Elves. See how it sparkles in the moonlight? Only magic can
cause this inner light! Unbelievable as it may be, I must grudgingly
part with it. For such power, any price is but a trifle!’
– Wolmar Rotte, Con Man
‘The last living heir of Lord Schwalb, you say? Hogwash! You’re the
fifth ‘heir’ to call this afternoon! How much did you pay for that scrap
of paper? Better yet, who’s the swindler what sold it to you?’
– Gerold Behn, Irritated Butler
To avoid rousing suspicion, Charlatans rarely stay in one area for
long. Few Swindlers openly admit to their calling, preferring instead
to masquerade as anyone other than themselves. Because of this, there
is little stopping Charlatans from pursuing side-matters of interests;
equally, afterwards, they can return to grafting anywhere with rich
fools willing to part with coin on naught but a promise.
III
102
Fence
Dwarf, Halfling, Human
A shrewd assessor of valuables, you’ll buy anything, legal or not, and
turn it around for a tidy profit.
A Fence buys thieves’ spoils and sells it on for profit, often to those
unaware the goods are stolen. Successful Fences sometimes operate as
pawn brokers, importers, or other merchants. Others prefer to remain
mobile, trafficking only in portable items. Though the average Fence
deals in goods and valuables, there are also well-informed specialists
who focus on information and forbidden knowledge. Some Fences
move stolen items across the Empire. A painting stolen in Altdorf is
easier to sell in Talabheim to an audience unaware of the theft. When
high profile items vanish, Fences are also the first individuals to be
consulted by those looking to acquire them. Some Fences even take
commissions from clients, connecting them with those who can steal
to order.
Fence Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Broker — Silver 1
Skills: Charm, Consume Alcohol, Dodge, Evaluate ,
Gamble, Gossip, Haggle, Melee (Basic)
Talents: Alley Cat, Cardsharp, Dealmaker, Gregarious
Trappings: Hand Weapon, Stolen Goods worth 3d10
Shillings
Fence — Silver 2
Skills: Cool, Intimidate, Intuition, Perception, Secret Signs
(Thief), Trade (Engraver)
Talents: Criminal, Etiquette (Criminals), Numismatics,
Savvy
Trappings: Eye-glass, Trade Tools (Engraver), Writing Kit
Master Fence — Silver 3
Skills: Bribery, Entertain (Storytelling), Lore (Art),
Lore (Local)
Talents: Kingpin, Strike to Stun, Suave, Super
Numerate
Trappings: Pawnbroker’s Shop
Black Marketeer — Silver 4
Skills: Lore (Heraldry), Research
Talents: Dirty Fighting, Iron Will, Menacing, Briber
Trappings: Hired Muscle, Network of Informants,
Warehouse
‘I know it’s stolen. You know it’s stolen. Even old Sigmar knows it’s
stolen. So when I ask you if it’s stolen, don’t insult me by telling me it
isn’t stolen. Lucky for you, I deal in stolen, so stop panicking.’
– Elene Weslach, Mover
‘Why am I called a Fence? Well, it’s because I provide you with some
de-fence from being caught, innit. So, you go thief, and I’ll make sure
you don’t have to worry about how to shift the merchandise. Think of
me like your partner-in-crime.’
– ‘Boil’ Vakram, Fence
The search for buyers and sellers, or the need to escape a terrible
situation, can take a Fence anywhere. They can be found across the
Empire and in many regions beyond its borders. Up-and-coming
Brokers transport illicit goods between Old World cities in search
of buyers. Others, looking to make a name for themselves elsewhere,
attempt to make their own niches in existing city underworlds.
Given that their interests often collide, Fences and merchants make
occasional bedfellows, as well. With all of this criminal activity and
movement, trouble often follows.
III
103
Cl ass and Careers - rogues
Warhammer Fantasy Rolepl ay
Grave Robber
Halfling, Human
You brave the threat of necromancy, stealing from the dead to line
your own pockets.
Trafficking in bodies and body parts is lucrative, with high demand from
universities and physicians for fresh cadavers. As well as the scholarly
market, corpses sometimes interred with all manner of valuables can be
found beneath the ravenstones in the tombs of Morr’s Gardens. Because
their labours are obvious, illegal, and sacrilegious, Grave Robbers
usually work under cover of darkness. Body Snatchers have been known
to cut out the middle man and take beggars or other unfortunates
straight off the streets. Tomb Robbers avoid the legal dangers of looting
the recently dead, and instead journey to ancient ruins and barrows,
risking the restless dead and brigands alike. Peculiarly, some successful
Treasure Hunters find themselves celebrated as heroes, their treasures
sold to, and displayed by, the aristocracy. It’s even rumoured that the
great wealth of one of the Knightly Orders came from a group of their
members plundering a foreign tomb.
Grave Robber Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Body Snatcher — Brass 2
Skills: Climb, Cool, Dodge, Endurance, Gossip, Intuition,
Perception, Stealth (Any)
Talents: Alley Cat, Criminal, Flee!, Strong Back
Trappings: Crowbar, Handcart, Hooded Cloak, Tarpaulin
Grave Robber — Brass 3
Skills: Bribery, Drive, Evaluate, Haggle, Lore (Medicine),
Melee (Basic)
Talents: Break and Enter, Night Vision, Resistance (Disease),
Very Strong
Trappings: Backpack, Hand Weapon, Spade, Storm
Lantern and Oil
Tomb Robber — Silver 1
Skills: Lore (History), Pick Lock, Research, Set Trap
Talents: Read/Write, Strike Mighty Blow, Tenacious, Tunnel
Rat
Trappings: Hand Weapon (Pick), Horse and Cart, Leather
Jack, Rope, Trade Tools (Thief)
Treasure Hunter — Silver 5
Skills: Navigation, Trade (Engineer)
Talents: Fearless (Undead), Sixth Sense, Strongminded,
Trapper
Trappings: Bedroll, Maps, Tent, Trade Tools
(Engineer), Writing Kit
‘You can’t take it with you... but I can certainly take it with me.’
– Symon Schreiber, Grave Robber
‘It’s not just the jewels, Herbert. Look at all the bones! There’s
professors in Altdorf who’d pay good money for these!’
– Tyle ‘the Ghoul’ Grubsch, Body Snatcher
‘The nightmares of Khemri still haunt me. The curses cast by those
long-dead tyrants have sealed my fate. I only hope Morr can put a
stop to the necromancy that rots my bones and blackens my heart.’
– Lady Estelle Hauptleiter, Treasure Hunter (deceased)
Grave Robbers easily take to the adventuring life, especially if their
nocturnal sojourns are discovered by unsympathetic authorities.
They may also be sought out by antiquarians who wish to engage
their expert services in the excavation of a tomb, or perhaps they will
feel compelled to track down a suspected necromancer who is using
corpses for nefarious purposes.
III
104
Outlaw
Dwarf, Halfling, High Elf, Human, Wood Elf
You prey upon travellers, extracting a toll from the vulnerable and the
unsuspecting.
Outlaws ply the roads of the Old World in search of vulnerable travellers
and merchant caravans. They lead dangerous and often hardscrabble
lives. Many do not see themselves as criminals, but as oppressed groups
trying to live their lives free from outside constraints. Many Wood
Elf outlaws fit this description, pushing back against the Humans
proliferating at the edge of the forests, willing to take more drastic
action than others of their kind. Particularly savvy and brutal Outlaws
may form bands of their own, sometimes even uniting several bands
under a single banner. Such Bandit Kings are feared and reviled by
noble and peasant alike. Though few Outlaws discriminate in choosing
their prey, some claim to protect the common man. These do-gooders
focus their larceny on greedy nobles and, in return, locals may provide
them with food, information, and safe harbour.
Outlaw Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Brigand — Brass 1
Skills: Athletics, Consume Alcohol, Cool, Endurance,
Gamble, Intimidate , Melee (Basic), Outdoor Survival
Talents: Combat Aware, Criminal, Rover, Flee!
Trappings: Bedroll, Hand Weapon, Leather Jerkin,
Tinderbox
Outlaw — Brass 2
Skills: Dodge, Heal, Lore (Local), Perception, Ranged
(Bow), Stealth (Rural)
Talents: Dirty Fighting, Marksman, Strike to Stun, Trapper
Trappings: Bow with 10 Arrows, Shield, Tent
Outlaw Chief — Brass 4
Skills: Gossip, Intuition, Leadership, Ride (Horse)
Talents: Rapid Reload, Roughrider, Menacing, Very
Resilient
Trappings: Helmet, Riding Horse with Saddle and
Tack, Sleeved Mail Shirt, Band of Outlaws
Bandit King — Silver 2
Skills: Charm, Lore (Empire)
Talents: Deadeye Shot, Fearless (Road Wardens), Iron
Will, Robust
Trappings: ‘Fiefdom’ of Outlaw Chiefs, Lair
‘They were children, not brigands. Starving, filthy, sickly. They held us
under the sight of their arrows and we stood fast… my son’s age, they
were. Children. Killed six of us…’
– Valentin Behr, Road Warden
‘...and he says, “Titus, why d’you carry them shears?” And I says,
“These?” And he says, “Aye, those’re the only shears I see.” So I laughed
and answered: “Sometimes they don’t want to take off their rings like
I ask ’em to. When I show ’em the shears, most of ’ em change their
tune right quick. And if they don’t…’’. Hehehe.’
– Titus Widmann, Outlaw
Outlaw bands are not all wild mobs, so many can be reasoned with
if approached correctly. An Outlaw might be asked to accompany a
group of adventurers as a guide or to protect them, especially if the
group are trying to stop unholy activity in a Bandit King’s domain.
Individual Outlaws may find it simple to join an adventuring band,
although they may need to disguise themselves if they go anywhere
the Outlaw is wanted.
III
105
Cl ass and Careers - rogues
Warhammer Fantasy Rolepl ay
Racketeer
Dwarf, Halfling, Human
You are part of an organised criminal gang, collecting debts and
extorting money from the weak.
Racketeers extort money from law-abiding citizens and merchants,
providing ‘protection’ or some similar fraudulent ‘service’. If the ‘fees’ are
not paid on time, the victims, their families, and their livelihoods are
at considerable risk. Large gangs bribe or intimidate local authorities
to ignore their activities; their Thugs are always willing to kill — or
worse — to keep business running smoothly. Thugs are employed to
collect debts of all kind, especially those incurred through gambling
losses or high-interest-rate loans. In a world brimming with poverty,
the promise of easy wealth is an allure countless fools are unable to
ignore. The more organised the graft, the larger and more complex the
organisations running them become. While the smallest rackets are
run by small gangs with limited territory beyond a building or two, the
largest can span cities or even entire provinces, and the Crime Lords
who run them can wield extraordinary power.
Racketeer Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Thug — Brass 3
Skills: Consume Alcohol, Cool, Dodge, Endurance,
Intimidate , Lore (Local), Melee (Brawling), Stealth (Urban)
Talents: Criminal, Etiquette (Criminals), Menacing, Strike
Mighty Blow
Trappings: Knuckledusters, Leather Jack
Racketeer — Brass 5
Skills: Bribery, Charm, Evaluate, Gossip, Language (Estalian
or Tilean), Melee (Basic)
Talents: Dirty Fighting, Embezzle, Strike to Stun, Warrior
Born
Trappings: Hand Weapon, Hat, Mail Shirt
Gang Boss — Silver 3
Skills: Intuition, Leadership, Perception, Ranged (Crossbow)
Talents: Fearless (Watchmen), Iron Will, Resistance (Poison),
Robust
Trappings: Crossbow Pistol with 10 Bolts, Gang of Thugs
and Racketeers, Lair
Crime Lord — Silver 5
Skills: Lore (Law), Lore (Politics)
Talents: Commanding Presence, Kingpin, Frightening,
Wealthy
Trappings: Network of Informers, Quality Clothing and Hat,
Subordinate Gang Bosses
‘I hope you have Hazelmann’s money because I really hate the sound
of breaking fingers.’
– Claus Betelhof, Well-Mannered Racketeer
‘IF YOU CAN’T PAE THE DEBT, DON’T MAKE THE BET.’
– Sign in Bosco’s Bones (Altdorf gambling house)
‘or bosco wil brake ya legs’
– Bosco’s Bones Sign Addendum scrawled in chalk
Thugs and Racketeers are always willing to resort to threats and
violence, making them valuable members of any party that expects
to face aggressive opposition. Gang Bosses might even take their
business on the road, looking to expand their territory or explore new
opportunities for intrigue and profit. Given the competitive nature
of such rackets, even the most powerful Crime Lords might find
themselves deposed by opponents or treachery. Forced to hide or
flee, such experienced crooks can seek to use a group of experienced
adventurers to their advantage.
III
106
Thief
Dwarf, Halfling, Human
You steal from others in order to line your own pockets, and you’re
rather good at it.
Thieves steal all manner of wealth and goods from their fellow man.
From the lowliest footpad to the wiliest burglar, the thought of an
honest day’s work in return for a respectable wage is little more than
a bad joke. Thieves often organize themselves into gangs alongside
charlatans, racketeers, and fences to further their mutual wealth. Bitter
feuds between such illicit organisations have been known to last for
years or even decades. The lowliest Thieves target individuals, picking
pockets or waylaying victims in rat-infested alleyways. Burglars avoid
confrontation by breaking into businesses and residences, carrying off
portable valuables. More ambitious thieves scope out their targets for
days or weeks, even going so far as to infiltrate their target locations
to get a more precise lay of the land. Working with other professional
burglars, such experts can organise heists of which their lesser peers can
only dream.
Thief Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Prowler — Brass 1
Skills: Athletics, Climb, Cool, Dodge, Endurance, Intuition,
Perception, Stealth (Urban)
Talents: Alley Cat, Criminal, Flee!, Strike to Stun
Trappings: Crowbar, Leather Jerkin, Sack
Thief — Brass 3
Skills: Evaluate, Gossip, Lore (Local), Pick Lock, Secret
Signs (Thief), Sleight of Hand
Talents: Break and Enter, Etiquette (Criminals), Fast Hands,
Shadow
Trappings: Trade Tools (Thief), Rope
Master Thief — Brass 5
Skills: Bribery, Gamble, Intimidate, Ranged (Crossbow)
Talents: Night Vision, Nimble Fingered, Step Aside, Trapper
Trappings: Crossbow Pistol with 10 Bolts
Cat Burglar — Silver 3
Skills: Charm, Set Trap
Talents: Catfall, Scale Sheer Surface, Strong Legs,
Wealthy
Trappings: Dark Clothing, Grappling Hook, Mask
or Scarves
‘One creaky floorboard in the whole place and I’m the one to find it…’
– Alette Zimmermann, Thief, Jailed
‘What the...? Those aren’t dogs... they’re bears!’
– Marx the Mauled, Unlucky Thief
‘No, the list of charges does not include, “Stealing the magistrate’s
heart away.” You must have me confused with a magistrate who has
a heart.’
– Leonora Nithardt, Magistrate
Thieves who run afoul of the law are obliged to hide or flee from
justice, putting many would-be inmates on the run. Sometimes
the very items stolen by Thieves are of such exorbitant value or
supernatural quality they seem to attract trouble like a mouldering
corpse draws flies, which can lead them into all sorts of unexpected
adventures. Of course, a Burglar’s talents are always valuable
to adventurers, and reliable examples can expect to be wellcompensated
for their skills.
III
107
Cl ass and Careers - rogues
Warhammer Fantasy Rolepl ay
Witch
Human
Wilful and ambitious, you strive to master magic without an officially
sanctioned licence to operate.
Any with the rare talent to wield magic must, by law, be trained by
wizards of the College of Magic. Not everyone accepts such a fate;
some hide their powers or go on the run. Such folk are called Witches.
They risk insanity and damnation as magic burns through them without
correct tutelage, and rarely understand the nature of the forces in which
they dabble. Others embrace their burgeoning powers wholeheartedly,
accepting the risks. Witches come in all varieties, with the talent to
wield magic playing no favourites. Some are benign figures simply
seeking freedom. Others are nobles refusing to accept they are Witches,
for to do so is to be disinherited. Yet others are terrified of what they
may become, so run away. Whatever the case, few will admit what they
are, as all risk burning by over-zealous Sigmarites.
Witch Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Hexer — Brass 1
Skills: Channelling, Cool, Endurance, Gossip, Intimidate,
Language (Magick), Sleight of Hand, Stealth (Rural)
Talents: Criminal, Instinctive Diction, Menacing, Petty Magic
Trappings: Candles, Chalk, Doll, Pins
Witch — Brass 2
Skills: Charm Animal, Dodge, Intuition, Melee (Polearm),
Perception, Trade (Herbalist)
Talents: Arcane Magic (Witchery), Attractive, Second
Sight, Witch!
Trappings: Quarterstaff, Sack, Selection of Herbs, Trade
Tools (Herbalist)
Wyrd — Brass 3
Skills: Bribery, Charm, Haggle, Lore (Dark Magic)
Talents: Animal Affinity, Fast Hands, Frightening,
Magical Sense
Trappings: Backpack, Cloak with Several Pockets, Lucky
Charm
Warlock — Brass 5
Skills: Lore (Daemonology), Lore (Magic)
Talents: Aethyric Attunement, Luck, Strong-minded, Very
Resilient
Trappings: Robes, Skull
‘Do you think only wizards can wield magic? Think again! I, too, have
such understanding, and I refuse to become a slave to the so-called
Colleges.’
– Apprentice Franz Zimmel of the Gold Order,
3 months before being captured by a Witch Hunter
Witches lead dangerous lives. Though some pose as wizards, such
deceptions are easily discerned by anyone with any knowledge of
magic. Nevertheless, bands of adventurers — especially those without
unwavering faith or moral qualms — rarely care for the specifics of
a Witch’s education so long as the methods used are effective and
have no truck with the Dark Gods. Although unsanctioned witchery
is illegal — carrying the death penalty — most wizards have a brief
experience as a Witch before entering the Colleges of Magic. This
is acknowledged by both the Colleges and the cults, so a Witch, if
discovered, should submit to the authorities. Training in the Colleges
could be covered as time between adventures, meaning the Witch
can return at a later date in the Wizard career, or it could become the
focus of a new adventure.
III
108
Ca valryman
High Elf, Human, Wood Elf
A dashing and fearless rider, you bring speed, versatility, and skill-atarms
to the battlefield.
Whether it’s units of Pistoliers, Outriders, Demilancers, Horse
Archers, or similar, Cavalrymen are deployed for maximum strategic
advantage. On campaign, that means scouting, raiding, harassing the
enemy lines, or defending foragers. On the battlefield, they are also
particularly versatile, able to strike quickly and melt away. For speed
of movement, scouting, versatility, and sheer élan, Cavalrymen cannot
be rivalled. Swift, lightly-armoured cavalry is employed by most
armies, including forces of the cults and less formal armed bands
including mercenaries or private armies. Bretonnian armies make use
of mounted men at arms, while Wood Elf Gladeriders are some of the
most feared light cavalry in the Old World.
Ca valryman Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Horseman — Silver 2
Skills: Animal Care, Charm Animal, Endurance, Language
(Battle), Melee (Basic), Outdoor Survival, Perception, Ride
(Horse)
Talents: Combat Aware, Crack the Whip, Lightning
Reflexes, Roughrider
Trappings: Leather Jack, Riding Horse with Saddle and
Tack
Cavalryman — Silver 4
Skills: Charm, Consume Alcohol, Cool, Gossip, Melee
(Cavalry), Ranged (Blackpowder)
Talents: Etiquette (Soldiers), Gunner, Seasoned Traveller,
Trick Riding
Trappings: Breastplate, Helmet, Light Warhorse with
Saddle and Tack, Pistol with 10 Shots, Shield
Cavalry Sergeant — Gold 1
Skills: Intimidate, Intuition, Leadership, Lore (Warfare)
Talents: Combat Reflexes, Fast Shot, Hatred (Any),
Warleader
Trappings: Sash
Cavalry Officer — Gold 2
Skills: Gamble, Lore (Heraldry)
Talents: Accurate Shot, Inspiring, Reaction Strike,
Robust
Trappings: Deck of Cards, Quality Clothing
‘Any pistolier not dead by thirty is a scoundrel.’
–General Lasaal, Reikland’s 5th Regiment of Cavalry
‘An outrider came by yesterday, checking to see if we were safe. Gosh,
he was so handsome and dashing, who wouldn’t want to go outriding
with him? He grabbed my buns and was off like the wind. Never paid
for them, mind.’
–Lena Fluffe, Walfenburg baker
A cavalryman currently in the State Army is not just going to drop
everything on a whim. Should they have something they wish to
personally pursue, they will require permission from senior officers,
perhaps buy out their commission if they have one, or go absent
without leave. As an alternative, they could be ordered to investigate
matters of importance by their superiors? Mercenary cavalrymen have
more flexibility to strike out adventuring, being little more than hired
swords.
III
109
Cl ass and Careers - warriors
Warhammer Fantasy Rolepl ay
Guard
Dwarf, Halfling, High Elf, Human, Wood Elf
Your job is simple: keep undesirables out.
The best way to keep something safe is to post a guard. Guarding looks
easy enough, it’s usually standing around doing very little. Guards live
and die, quite literally, by how they behave during that one moment
when they are required to spring into action. The best can command
high wages and are entrusted with the lives of the Empire’s finest
personages and most valuable items. Guards are everywhere, from
the Imperial palace down to bouncers who stand outside taverns all
night, ready to throw drunkards into the street. They also include grave
wardens — those who defend Morr’s Gardens in the dead of night,
watchful for grave robbers — and temple guards who defend holy sites
and important priests. Merchants often employ many Guards to defend
their valuable stock. Some claim bodyguards have it best because they
stay close to their esteemed employers, and often partake of a life far
beyond that which their station would normally allow.
Guard Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Sentry — Silver 1
Skills: Consume Alcohol, Endurance, Entertain
(Storytelling), Gamble, Gossip, Intuition, Melee (Basic),
Perception
Talents: Diceman, Etiquette (Servants), Strike to Stun,
Tenacious
Trappings: Buckler, Leather Jerkin, Storm Lantern
with Oil
Guard — Silver 2
Skills: Athletics, Cool, Dodge, Intimidate, Melee
(Polearm), Ranged (Bow)
Talents: Relentless, Reversal, Shieldsman, Strike
Mighty Blow
Trappings: Bow with 10 Arrows, Sleeved Mail Shirt,
Shield, Spear
Honour Guard — Silver 3
Skills: Heal, Language (Battle), Lore (Etiquette),
Melee (Two-handed)
Talents: Fearless (Intruders), Jump Up, Stout-hearted,
Unshakeable
Trappings: Great Weapon or Halberd, Helmet, Uniform
Guard Officer — Silver 5
Skills: Leadership, Lore (Warfare)
Talents: Combat Master, Furious Assault, Iron Will, Robust
Trappings: Breastplate
‘I stood outside the shrine for thirty days and thirty nights, without
fail. No-one got in and no-one got out. Of course, it turned out I was
stood outside the wrong door.’
– Ernst Bluchard, Ex-Temple Guard of Manann
‘If you’re not on the list, you’re not coming in!’
– Anonymous Altdorf guard to the Grand Theogonist
at the coronation of Karl-Franz I, apocryphal
Guards can find adventure when their guardianship is compromised.
Any guard worth his salt would wish to follow up and investigate
those who have thwarted them, and get whatever they were guarding
back to its true owner. This could easily turn into an exciting adventure.
Many of those going on expeditions will require guards to accompany
them, to adventure, profit or an untimely demise.
III
110
Knight
High Elf, Human, Wood Elf
Thundering into battle on a heavy charger, you dominate the field,
spreading fear in your wake.
Many believe heavy cavalry are the pre-eminent warriors of the Old
World. A massed charge is an awesome sight, but even alone a Knight
can stand as a one-person army. There are many Knightly Orders in the
Empire, the most famous including the Reiksguard, the White Wolves,
the Knights Panther, and the Knights Griffon, each of which have
their own gloried history and mighty heroes. Most Empire Knights
belong to secular knightly orders, partly because training heavy lancers
is too prohibitively expensive for most nobles. The templar orders,
those dedicated to the service of a single deity are just as common but
are somewhat more independent. Alongside these are an uncounted
number of free-lances, mercenary knights, and disgraced knights, most
of whom sell their lance to the highest bidder.
Knight Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Squire — Silver 3
Skills: Athletics, Animal Care, Charm Animal, Heal, Lore
(Heraldry), Melee (Cavalry) , Ride (Horse), Trade (Farrier)
Talents: Etiquette (any), Roughrider, Sturdy, Warrior
Born
Trappings: Leather Jack, Mail Shirt, Riding Horse with
Saddle and Tack, Shield, Trade Tools (Farrier)
Knight — Silver 5
Skills: Cool, Dodge, Endurance, Intimidate, Language
(Battle), Melee (Any)
Talents: Menacing, Seasoned Traveller, Shieldsman, Strike
Mighty Blow
Trappings: Destrier with Saddle and Tack, Melee Weapon
(Any), Lance, Plate Armour and Helm
First Knight — Gold 2
Skills: Charm, Consume Alcohol, Leadership, Lore
(Warfare)
Talents: Fearless (Any), Stout-hearted, Unshakeable,
Warleader
Trappings: Barding, Small Unit of Knights
Knight of the Inner Circle — Gold 4
Skills: Lore (Any), Secret Signs (Knightly Order)
Talents: Disarm, Inspiring, Iron Will, Strike to Injure
Trappings: Plumed Great Helm, Squire, Large Unit of
Knights or Several Small Units of Knights
‘The knight demanded I get out of his way. “Why?” I asked. “I am in
the service of the people,” he replied. “Well, I’m the people,” I said, “so
I don’t have to get out of your way.” He didn’t have an answer to that,
of course. So he punched me in the face!’
– Holger Kass, 1st Bögenhafen Halberdiers
‘Lady Myrmaelia Jaeke is the finest knight in the Order of the
Blazing Sun. How can I be so sure? Well, I used to hold that title,
and she bested me.’
– Birgitte van der Hoogenband, Abbess-General of the Monastery
of the Black Maiden, former Knight of the Blazing Sun.
Knights might be asked to venture out to fulfil a duty on behalf of
their Order or be sought out by nobles and employed to accompany
a restless heir around the Empire. Similarly, templars will have
responsibility to do their god’s will. All of these provide perfect
opportunities for Knights looking to adventure. By comparison, a
free-lance is just that, and a life of adventure is what they follow by
default.
III
111
Cl ass and Careers - warriors
Warhammer Fantasy Rolepl ay
Pit Fighter
Dwarf, Halfling, High Elf, Human, Wood Elf
You fight for money, for glory, and for the entertainment of the
masses.
Watching fights is a popular pastime. In the cities, organised fights
take place every night. There is money to be made charging spectators,
and even more in gambling on the result. Winners earn coin and are
celebrated as local heroes. Losers are hurt or killed. Because pit fighting
is officially frowned upon, the fights are often controlled by criminal
gangs, but the rich love to slum it on occasion, especially if it involves
a little bloodshed. The gladiators of Tilea are the most renowned pit
fighters, though the chain-fighters of Marienburg and bear-wrestlers of
Kislev draw a crowd. Pugilists and wrestlers might work a travelling fair,
challenging the public to survive three minutes in the ring with them,
or they might fight a celebrated opponent in front of cheering crowds.
Knives, clubs, chains, boxing, wrestling, there is an almost endless
variation of styles and codes a Pit Fighter might adopt.
Pit Fighter Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Pugilist — Brass 4
Skills: Athletics, Cool, Dodge, Endurance, Gamble,
Intimidate, Melee (Any) , Melee (Brawling)
Talents: Dirty Fighting, In-fighter, Iron Jaw, Reversal
Trappings: Bandages, Knuckledusters, Leather Jack
Pit Fighter — Silver 2
Skills: Haggle, Intuition, Melee (Basic), Melee (Flail or
Two-handed), Perception, Ranged (Entangling)
Talents: Ambidextrous, Combat Reflexes, Dual Wielder,
Shieldsman
Trappings: Flail or Great Weapon, Hand Weapon, Net or
Whip, Shield or Buckler
Pit Champion — Silver 5
Skills: Consume Alcohol, Gossip, Lore (Anatomy), Perform
(Fight)
Talents: Combat Master, Disarm, Menacing, Robust
Trappings: Breast Plate, Helmet
Pit Legend — Gold 2
Skills: Charm, Ranged (Any)
Talents: Frightening, Furious Assault, Implacable, Reaction
Strike
Trappings: Quality Helmet
‘It was my big chance. The biggest fight of my life. Then the Hooks
came and told me to go down in the fourth or they’d chop off my
hand. Well, you know me, of course I went and won anyway. And I’ve
no regrets. After all, there are lots of things you can do with one hand.’
– Sigurda the Bull, Arm Wrestler
‘Roll up! Roll up! Dare you face the might of Gosser Papa? Could you
last three minutes with Resige Heuhaufer!’
– Raimund Heenan, Ring Announcer
Many Pit Fighters fall into their sport because they have the talent
and they simply need the money. Some would jump at the chance to
leave their seedy world behind and put their talents to a slightly better
use. Fortunately, Pit fighters are generally free to use their time as they
will, provided they turn up on time for the next big fight, and even if
they don’t, there is always another pit…
III
112
Protagonist
Dwarf, High Elf, Human
A strong-arm for hire, you bully, fight, and maybe even kill for coin.
Protagonists live by their wits and their muscles and are not generally
fussy about the sort of work they take on. A merchant might want to
frighten their business rival. An employer might decide his workers
need a bit of encouragement to get a job done quicker. A noble might
want his daughter’s no-good suitor to be frightened off. Protagonists
are the ones they turn to, and those with the worst reputation get the
best jobs. A Protagonist could be the brute in the local bar everyone
knows will bully for coin, or with the reputation for unflinching
violence. Some Protagonists have their own code of what they will or
won’t do; others care for nothing but the coin. Some are simple bullies
who resort to picking arguments and fights with likely looking targets
to see if they can score any money from the situation.
Protagonist Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Braggart — Brass 2
Skills: Athletics, Dodge, Endurance, Entertain (Taunt),
Gossip, Haggle, Intimidate, Melee (Any)
Talents: In-fighter, Dirty Fighting, Menacing, Warrior Born
Trappings: Hood or Mask, Knuckledusters, Leather Jack
Protagonist — Silver 1
Skills: Bribery, Charm, Intuition, Melee (Basic),
Perception, Ride (Horse)
Talents: Combat Reflexes, Criminal, Reversal,
Strike to Stun
Trappings: Hand Weapon, Mail Shirt, Riding
Horse with Saddle and Tack, Shield
Hitman — Silver 4
Skills: Climb, Cool, Navigation, Ranged (Thrown)
Talents: Careful Strike, Disarm, Marksman,
Relentless
Trappings: Cloak, Garotte, Poison, Throwing
Knives
Assassin — Gold 1
Skills: Entertain (Acting), Ranged (Crossbow)
Talents: Accurate Shot, Ambidextrous, Furious
Assault, Strike to Injure
Trappings: Crossbow with 10 shots, Disguise Kit
‘Remember Thommy Two Knives? I’m not saying he crossed me. I’m
just saying you don’t see him walking round town no more, do you?’
– Gilly Three Knives, Protagonist
‘Yeah, Big Yuri came round and destroyed all my merchandise. Said
this town was only big enough for one lotus dealer, and that was that.
I completely agreed, so I doubled his pay and sent him back to White
Tiger’s den. And that was the end of that.’
– Toni Miragliano, Lotus Dealer
On the face of it, Protagonists are always up for an adventure because
they’re always up for a fight. But they will usually expect to get
paid for services rendered. Whether they will join others without a
guarantee of payment is a question they will need to ask themselves.
Could a hardened protagonist find a cause they will voluntarily
pursue? Perhaps they could even turn over a new leaf?
III
113
Cl ass and Careers - warriors
Warhammer Fantasy Rolepl ay
Slayer
Dwarf
You are rage and shame incarnate, seeking a worthy death to reclaim
your lost honour.
When Dwarfs suffer an unacceptable shame and lose their honour, they
take the Slayer’s Oath and walk the path of Grimnir, their ancestral
god of warriors. Covering their bodies in tattoos, shaving the sides of
their head, dying their remaining hair a brilliant orange, and spiking it
with animal grease, they set off into the world, axe in hand, seeking a
glorious death.
Slayers wander the Old World hunting deadly beasts, such as Trolls,
Giants, or Dragons. Because of the shame they carry, many suffer from
bouts of depression, glutting themselves on food, alcohol, or stronger
stimulants. The more foes Slayers face and survive, the more dangerous
and crazed they become, hunting progressively deadlier creatures in the
hopes of finding something that can kill them.
Slayer Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Troll Slayer — Brass 2
Skills: Consume Alcohol, Cool, Dodge, Endurance,
Gamble, Heal, Lore (Trolls), Melee (Basic)
Talents: Dual Wielder, Fearless (Everything), Frenzy, Slayer
Trappings: Axe, Flask of Spirits, Shame, Tattoos
Giant Slayer — Brass 2
Skills: Evaluate, Intimidate, Language (Battle), Lore
(Giants), Melee (Two-handed), Outdoor Survival
Talents: Hardy, Implacable, Menacing, Reversal
Trappings: Great Axe, Jewellery, Troll’s Head
Dragon Slayer — Brass 2
Skills: Entertain (Storytelling), Lore (Dragons),
Perception, Ranged (Thrown)
Talents: Ambidextrous, Furious Assault, Relentless,
Robust
Trappings: Giant’s Head, Throwing Axes
Daemon Slayer — Brass 2
Skills: Intuition, Lore (Chaos)
Talents: Combat Master, Frightening, Strike Mighty Blow,
Very Strong
Trappings: Dragon’s Head
‘We avoid them, if given the choice. They are outcasts and have no
honour, only the hope of reclaiming such. Still, we’ll feed them, and
give them a place to rest. They are Grimnir’s Chosen, now…’
– Dimrond Zindrisson, Miner
‘Herwig didn’t mean nothing by it, honest. He just asked why the
Dwarf had them strange tattoos. It happened so fast, I didn’t even see
the Dwarf move, just Herwig hitting the floor.’
– Regimius, Stevedore
‘We’re all going to die, manling. It’s the manner of our going that
counts.’
– Gotrek Gurnisson, Slayer
Till they fall in battle, a Slayer’s life is one of adventure — they
seek out opportunities to face powerful foes in battle. Slayers will
occasionally take other odd jobs, for drinking money or to finance
their travels, but will seek death along the way. All Slayers previously
had a life and a career, so there is more to them than simply being a
warrior with a deathwish.
Playing a Slayer is a unique experience because your character wants
to die. Embrace this. Seek a mighty doom. Reclaim your honour. Die
well.
III
114
Soldier
Dwarf, Halfling, High Elf, Human, Wood Elf
You are paid to train, be disciplined, and, when the need comes, go
to war.
By the command of Emperor Magnus the Pious after the Great War
Against Chaos, all provinces of the Empire had to maintain a standing
State Army. Soldiers are the mainstay of these armies, trained to fight
as part of a larger group with individual skill supplemented by strength
in numbers. Rarely encouraged to think for themselves, Soldiers are
famous for their stoic fatalism as they are ordered from pillar to post
in the service of their betters. Soldiers could be archers, crossbowmen,
halberdiers, handgunners, swordsmen, or spearmen, and that’s just
in a typical State regiment. Dwarfs employ soldiers like Hammerers
and Thunderers, while Elven rank and file are usually archers and
spearmen. There are many other Soldiers, such as Mercenaries, local
Militias (which are rarely better than Recruits), private armies, cult
forces, and more.
Soldier Advance Scheme
WS BS S T I Agi Dex Int WP Fel
h h h
Career Path
h Recruit — Silver 1
Skills: Athletics, Climb, Cool, Dodge, Endurance, Language
(Battle), Melee (Basic) , Play (Drum or Fife)
Talents: Diceman, Marksman, Strong Back, Warrior Born
Trappings: Dagger, Leather Breastplate, Uniform
Soldier — Silver 3
Skills: Consume Alcohol, Gamble, Gossip, Melee (Any),
Ranged (Any), Outdoor Survival
Talents: Drilled, Etiquette (Soldiers), Rapid Reload,
Shieldsman
Trappings: Breastplate, Helmet, Weapon (Any)
Sergeant — Silver 5
Skills: Heal, Intuition, Leadership, Perception
Talents: Combat Aware, Enclosed Fighter, Unshakeable,
Warleader
Trappings: Symbol of Rank, Unit of Troops
Officer — Gold 1
Skills: Lore (Warfare), Navigation
Talents: Inspiring, Public Speaking, Seasoned Traveller,
Stout-hearted
Trappings: Letter of Commission, Light Warhorse with
Saddle and Tack, Map, Orders, Unit of Soldiers, Quality
Uniform, Symbol of Rank
Novitiate — Brass 2
Trappings: Book (Religion), Leather Jerkin, Religious Symbol, Robes, Weapon (Any Melee)
Warrior Priest — Silver 2
Trappings: Breastplate, Weapon (Any)
Priest Sergeant — Silver 3
Trappings: Light Warhorse with Saddle and Tack
Priest Captain — Silver 4
Trappings: Religious Relic